---
layout: post
title:  "Statistics"
date:   2017-06-31 14:08:38 +0200
categories: Teaching
---
*Current:*

♦ **Statistical Methods for NLP.** Spring 2017. Master’s Programme in Language Technology. *University of Gothenburg*. Access Course Website.

♦ **Introduction to Formal Linguistics.** Autumn 2016. Master’s Programme in Language Technology. *University of Gothenburg*. Co-teaching with Stergios Chatzikyriakides.

*Courses: 2011 - 2015:*

♦ **Phonetics & Phonology.**  Department of English Studies. *University of Cyprus*.
This course investigates the speech sounds of human languages from an articulatory and an acoustic point of view as well as the basic notions behind the way in which speech sounds are organized into sound systems of different human languages. At a supra-segmental level, it investigates prosodic systems (syllable structure and stress) of human languages. Whilst it starts off with the fundamental concepts of phonetics and phonology, at the same time, it provides the foundation for more advanced treatments of the above topics through different theoretical frameworks within contemporary phonology.

The course is arranged thematically: each week, we will examine a major topic of phonetic and/or phonological concern, providing theoretical, methodological and empirical work (observation and or instrumental). Students are responsible for writing a short, weekly assignment paper or small projects, to be handed in before each week’s final class. Students should, at a minimum, be prepared to discuss eachof that class period’s focus questions in conference.

Assignments must be turned in on time to receive full credit and comments. Extensions will be granted only in cases of illness, family emergency, etc. Late assignments will not be accepted for credit if turned in after the problem set has been returned to students, or discussed in class, whichever comes first. You are encouraged to work on problem sets together, but your answers must be written up separately and in your own words.

♦ **Theoretical Phonology: Suprasegmental Phonology.** Department of English Studies. *University of Cyprus*.


Assuming no prior knowledge of Phonetics and Phonology, the course introduces students to the basic notions of these fields. The first part of this course explores the production, perception, and acoustics of speech sounds. More specifically, the course introduces the basic notions of sound structure, demonstrates how sounds are transcribed using the International Phonetic Alphabet, and explores the distinctive features of sounds. The second part provides an introduction to suprasegmental structure. The course is arranged thematically: each week, we will examine a major topic providing theoretical, methodological and empirical work.

♦ **Principles of Linguistic Analysis I.**  Department of English Studies. *University of Cyprus*.
Principles of Linguistic Analysis I examines core areas in linguistic theory and aims to provide a most up-to-date, comprehensive and detailed overview of phonology. More specifically, the course has the following goals:
to introduce students to the most influential areas of phonological theory,
to discuss and compare answers and solutions phonological theories provide to major phonological questions,
to enable students to read the current scholarly literature with critical understanding and perspective,
to show how phonology interacts with other linguistic domains such as phonetics, morphology, syntax, and language acquisition.

♦ **Research Design and Statistics for Linguists using R.** Department of English Studies. *University of Cyprus*.
This course provides an introduction to research methodology, experimental design and statistics for linguists. By the end of the course, students will be able to
- define a research hypothesis and articulate a research question,
- plan a research project and design an experiment,
- define response variables,
- define explanatory variables,
- perform the right statistics test,
- execute the test on the R statistics package,
- learn to create graphs and present their findings.
The course covers these topics through the discussion of key research methods and resources and through the analysis of real-life datasets, by using R code.  It will therefore be of major interest to everyone interested in designing experiments and performing statistical analyses, but it is also of utmost importance for everyone interested in reading and understanding research articles.

♦ **Information Structure and Prosody**.  Department of English Studies. *University of Cyprus*.

‘Information Structure and Prosody’ is indented to provide students with a sound coverage of the topics related to the melodic patterns of Speech Prosody and their interactions with ‘Information Structure’ and ‘Discourse’. The course presents the state of the art in the field; it demonstrates current research trends and uncovers potential directions for future research. It is therefore of major interest to everyone studying phonology and semantics and their interaction. The course is arranged thematically: each week, we examine a major topic, providing theoretical, methodological and empirical work (base on observation & experimentation).

♦ **Sociolinguistics: Phonetics and Phonology.**  Department of English Studies. *University of Cyprus*.

Why do we speak differently from our grandparents? Why speakers from some areas sound strange? What do we mean when we say this woman/man sounds like a doctor? Why languages change and how do we study language change? How do linguists study language variation? This class provides an introduction to Sociophonetics, the multifaceted subfield of linguistics in which phonetics, phonology and sociolinguistics interact. We will cover the following topics:

(a) sociophonetics: approaches, methodologies, and ethics.

(b) field studies and data collection.

(c) phonetic/phonological variation.

(d) language change.

This class is essentially a trip into language and society. We will meet the main practitioners of the field. We will try to uncover the philosophies that underlie their thought and the ideas that formed their approaches. We will explore thoroughly the phonemic systems of languages and try to uncover the reasons of change.

♦ **Phonetics and Phonology: Advanced Level.**  Department of English Studies. *University of Cyprus*. The ‘English Phonetics and Phonology: Advanced Level’ is an integrated and structured course of key topics representing the state of the art in the field of phonetics and phonology. Focusing on linguistic, interactional, social, cultural and ideological issues, the course is organized to provide a graded introduction to Phonetics and Phonological theory which is essential for sociolinguistic research. The course includes:

- the study of fundamental concepts in phonetics and phonology,
- the study of the sociolinguistic aspects of speech and
- the study of interactional phonetics and phonology.

It covers all these topics through the discussion of key research methods and resources, reading classic texts written by leading theorists, highlighting key concepts in different traditions of phonetics and phonology and finally by studying important papers by contemporary specialists showing what phonetics and phonology is able to achieve if applied to different social issues and social settings. It will therefore be  of major interest to everyone interested in phonetics, phonology, conversation analysis, discourse analysis and sociolinguistics.

♦ **Speech Melody and Conversation.**  Department of English Studies. *University of Cyprus*.‘Speech Melody and Conversation’ provides an overview of speech melody, its linguistic functions and applications in talk in interaction. The course focuses on linguistic, interactional, social, and cultural issues, integrating both theory and practice. The course introduces:
fundamental concepts in speech melody and prosody.
grammatical aspects of speech melody and
applications of speech melody in organizing everyday interactions.
The course covers these topics through the analysis of oral texts, discussion of key research methods and resources, reading texts written by leading theorists and finally by studying important papers by contemporary specialists. It will therefore be of major interest to everyone interested in phonetics, conversation analysis, discourse analysis and sociolinguistics.


♦ **Sociolinguistics.**  Department of English Studies. *University of Cyprus*.
Introduction to Sociolinguistics is indented to provide students with a sound coverage of the topics related to ‘Sociolinguistics’ and ‘The Sociology of Language’. The student gradually will develop the joined premises that interpersonal communication practices are culturally variable, socially stratified and geographically distributed. The course is arranged thematically: each week, we will examine a major topic of sociolinguistics concern, providing theoretical, methodological and empirical work (observation and or experimental). Students are responsible for writing a short, weekly assignment paper or small projects, to be handed in before each week’s final class. Students should, at a minimum, be prepared to discuss each of that class period’s focus questions in conference.Assignments must be turned in on time to receive full credit and comments. Extensions will be granted only in cases of illness, family emergency, etc. Late assignments will not be accepted for credit if turned in after the problem set has been returned to students, or discussed in class, whichever comes first. You are encouraged to work on problem sets together, but your answers must be written up separately and in your own words.
