---
layout: post
title:  "Phonetics"
date:   2017-05-31 14:08:38 +0200
categories: Research Project
---
# Speech Pathology

In a number of studies, my aim has been to determine how atypical speech
productions differ from typical ones. I consider the first line of research
presented in the previous sections, as a kind of map of the typical productions
of these two varieties. Therefore, methods that compare the atypical productions
to the typical ones will reveal how the two groups differ. To this purpose, I
investigate the effects of mild cognitive impairment, Alzheimer's disease, SLI,
and aphasia on speech. Currently, in collaboration with other researchers from
various universities, we are preparing a study with respect to the effects of
cortical thickness on prosody in atypical speech productions (mild cognitive
impairment and Alzheimer's disease), which is a follow-up study of the study
``Effects of cortical thickness on pause duration in neurotypical adultsâ€™
speech: Evidence for the role of the left middle temporal gyrus in lexical
retrieval'' that will be presented this year in Baltimore at the *Society
for the Neurobiology of Language*.

In current work to be presented in the *Academy of Aphasia* conference
(Fyndanis, Themistocleous, and Christidou, 2017), we explore the manifestation
of time reference in agrammatic aphasia. This study explored the relationship
between time reference and aspect focusing on Greek aphasia. In Greek, verb
forms referring to the past and future encode the perfective-imperfective
contrast. Results challenge the idea of prototypical and non-prototypical
associations between time reference and aspect. The double dissociation that
emerged in the Aspect condition indicates that a given time reference-aspect
combination may be relatively easy to process for some PWA but demanding for
some others. Thus, studies investigating tense/time reference in aphasia should
ensure that this grammatical/semantic category is not confounded by aspect. A
journal article with this topic is also under preparation. Moreover, in a joint
preliminary work with Elena Papadopoulou, which was presented in *5th
International Conference on Language Disorders in Greek*, we showed that there
are different alignment effects along with differences in pitch range in the
production of the prosody of SLI speakers of Cypriot Greek.
