---
layout: post
title:  "Research Software/Packages"
date:   2024-06-16 10:08:40 +0200
categories: Research Project
---

Here's a selection of Python packages and utility software I've found valuable. This is by no means an exhaustive list, but I hope you discover something useful. Let me know if you'd like me to add any specific tools. The selection is updated regularly.

# Language Analysis
## Open Brain AI
Open Brain AI (OBAI) is a computational platform. First, it aims to provide advanced AI tools to facilitate spoken and written language analysis, automate the analysis process, and reduce the workload associated with time-consuming tasks. 

The platform currently incorporates multilingual tools for English, Danish, Dutch, Finnish, French, German, Greek, Italian, Norwegian, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Russian, Spanish, and Swedish. 

The tools involve models for 

- i. audio transcription, 
- ii. automatic translation, 
- iii. grammar error correction, 
- iv. transcription to the International Phonetic Alphabet, 
- v. readability scoring, 
- vi phonology, morphology, syntax, semantic measures (e.g., counts and proportions), and lexical measures. 

Second, it aims to support clinicians in conducting their research and automating everyday tasks with “OBAI Companion,” an AI language assistant that facilitates language processing, such as structuring, summarizing, and editing texts. OBAI also provides tools for automating spelling and phonology scoring.

**Website:** [Open Brain AI](http://openbrainai.com)

# Research Studies - Brain
## NiMARE
NiMARE is a Python package for performing meta-analyses, and derivative analyses using meta-analytic data, of the neuroimaging literature. While meta-analytic packages exist which implement one or two algorithms each, NiMARE provides a standard syntax for performing a wide range of analyses and for interacting with databases of coordinates and images from fMRI studies (e.g., brainspell, Neurosynth, and NeuroVault).

NiMARE joins a growing Python ecosystem for neuroimaging research, which includes such tools as Nipype, Nibabel, and Nilearn. As with these other tools, NiMARE is open source, collaboratively developed, and built with ease of use in mind.

This page outlines NiMARE’s purpose and its role in a proposed meta-analytic ecosystem

## Conn Toolbox
CONN is a Matlab-based cross-platform software for the computation, display, and analysis of
functional connectivity in fMRI (fcMRI). Version 22 brings a number of updates and additions to previous releases. Some of the main new procedures and tools include new interactive analyses exploring the entire
brain-wide functional connectome, with a focus on descriptions of commonalities as well as heterogeneity of
functional connectivity patterns across subjects and experimental conditions (similar to AFNI instacorr but
across all subjects in a study; available in 2nd-level fc-MVPA summary tab), new preprocessing options for
normalizing anatomical and functional volumes in the presence of anatomical lesions (available in
Setup.Preprocessing), new displays for ROI-to-ROI connectivity and contingency table data (in ROI-to-ROI
results explorer), as well as the ability to create automated text, distributed under a public domain dedication
license, describing in detail the specific preprocessing, denoising, 1st- and 2nd- level analyses steps performed
on each individual CONN project (available in Tools.WriteMethods).

## Neurovault
[Neurovault](https://neurovault.org/) is an online platform that hosts
unthresholded statistical maps, including group statistical maps.
NiMARE can read these statistical maps when given a list of collection_ids.

**Website**: [Neurovault](https://neurovault.org/) 

## Neuroquery
**Website:** [Neuroquery](https://neuroquery.org)

## Neurosynth Compose
*Neurosynth Compose* is the next-generation of Neurosynth, enabling users to easily perform custom neuroimaging meta-analyses using a fully web-based platform, with no programming experience required. 

*Neurosynth Compose* is *free to use* and helps users:

* 🔎 **Search** across over 20,000 studies in the Neurosynth database, or import from external databases such as PubMed.
* 🗃️ **Curate** your StudySet using systematic review tools conforming to the [PRISMA](https://www.prisma-statement.org/) guidelines.
* 📝 **Extract** coordinates and metadata for each study, leveraging thousands of pre-extracted studies to minimize effort.
* 📊 **Analyze** by specifying a reproducible [NiMARE](https://readthedocs.org/projects/nimare/) workflow, and execute it locally or in the cloud. 
* 🔗 **Share** with the community with complete provenance and reproducibility.

**Website** [Neurosynth Compose](https://compose.neurosynth.org/)

## OpenNeuro
A free and open platform for validating and sharing BIDS-compliant MRI, PET, MEG, EEG, and iEEG data.

**Website:** [OpenNeuro](https://openneuro.org)


## Cognitive Atlas

The Cognitive Atlas is a collaborative knowledge building project that aims to develop a knowledge base (or ontology) that characterizes the state of current thought in cognitive science. The project is led by Russell Poldrack, Professor of Psychology at Stanford University. Development of the project was supported by grant RO1MH082795 from the National Institute of Mental Health.

**Website:** [Cognitive Atlas](http://www.cognitiveatlas.org)

# Literature and Bibliography
## LISC - Literature Scanner
LISC acts as a wrapper and connector between available APIs, allowing users to collect data from and about scientific articles, and perform analyses on this data, such as performing automated meta-analyses.

## Confidence Scanner
The Confidence Scanner is a project for automated collection and analysis of scientific text samples. The functionality can be broken into two primary steps. In the data collection phase, paper abstracts are gathered from PubMed, a repository for scientific papers specifically in Medicine and the Life Sciences, and press releases are scraped from EurekAlert, a public database for scientific press releases from a variety of research institutions and fields. Analysis consists of four different tests--Readability, Sentiment, Subjectivity, and Confidence. A paper written for the CogSci 2018 conference further detailing the analysis can be found here and a conference poster can be found here.

# Biology Analysis Software
## Biopython
Biopython is a set of freely available tools for biological computation written in Python by an international team of developers.

It is a distributed collaborative effort to develop Python libraries and applications which address the needs of current and future work in bioinformatics. The source code is made available under the Biopython License, which is extremely liberal and compatible with almost every license in the world.

We are a member project of the Open Bioinformatics Foundation (OBF), who take care of our domain name and hosting for our mailing list etc. The OBF used to host our development repository, issue tracker and website but these are now on GitHub.

**Website:** [BioPython](https://biopython.org)

# Acoustic Analysis Software
Praat is a computer program with which you can analyse, synthesize, and manipulate speech, and create high-quality pictures for your articles and thesis. 

**Website:** [Praat](https://www.fon.hum.uva.nl/praat/manual/Intro.html)

**Praat Scripts:** [Praat Scripts](https://github.com/themistocleous/praat_scripts)

